Sentences and phrases

Palindromes often consist of a sentence or phrase, e.g., "Eva, can I stab bats in a cave?", "Mr. Owl ate my metal worm", "Was it a car or a cat I saw?", "A nut for a jar of tuna", "Do geese see God?", "Ma is as selfless as I am", "On a clover, if alive erupts a vast pure evil, a fire volcano", "Dammit, I'm mad!","Dog, as a devil deified, lived as a god.", "Not so, Boston.","A Toyota's a Toyota", "Go hang a salami, I'm a lasagna hog", "A Santa lived as a devil at NASA", and "An igloo! Cool, Gina!".

Punctuation, capitalization, and spaces are usually ignored. Some, such as "Rats live on no evil star", "Live on time, emit no evil", and "Step on no pets", include the spaces.
Semordnilaps

Semordnilap (palindromes spelled backward) is a name coined for words that spell a different word in reverse. The word was coined by Martin Gardner in his notes to C.C. Bombaugh's book Oddities and Curiosities of Words and Literature.[3]

An example of this is the word repaid, which is diaper spelled backward.

The longest examples of a semordnilap contain eight letters:

    "stressed" ("desserts")
    "rewarder" ("redrawer", one who redraws)
    "dioramas" ("samaroid", resembling a samara)

Shorter examples are "deliver" ("reviled"), Zeus ("Suez"), and "swap" ("paws").

"Noon" is a palindrome but not a semordnilap because it is the same word whether spelled backward or forward.

Semordnilaps are also known as word reversals, reversible anagrams,[4] heteropalindromes, semi-palindromes, half-palindromes, reversgrams, mynoretehs, or anadromes.[5] They have also sometimes been called antigrams,[5] though this term usually refers to anagrams which have opposite meanings.
Famous English palindromes

Some well-known English palindromes are, "Able was I ere I saw Elba",[6] "A man, a plan, a canal - Panama!",[7] "Madam, I'm Adam" or "Madam in Eden, I'm Adam", "Doc, note: I dissent. A fast never prevents a fatness. I diet on cod"[8] and "Never odd or even".

"Rise to vote, sir" was featured in an episode of The Simpsons.[9]
